---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---
## July 1 - July 5

I met with Luc virtually this week. We discussed one of the academic papers I read for him last week and the final technical report I'll be writing for DREU. He suggested that I begin by writing about the Minecraft learning environment and BarrelBot, and he suggested that I spend my time with Juan discussing ENA interpretation since this will likely be in the results section of the report. 

So, I spent the first half of my week focused on taking my script to process and format the BarrelBot data for ENA as far as I could before my Wednesday meeting with Juan. I managed to get a lot done. At present, the output from this script includes when users enter and exit puzzle regions, when users interact and/or make changes to the bot, information on the type of changes made (whether the user added, removed, rearranged, or removed all instructions in the bot), whether the user ran or reset the bot, and whether the bot failed or succeeded to navigate the obstacle course in the puzzle region.

On Wednesday afternoon, Juan and I looked at the ENA and ONA results together. It seems that the most difficult part of using this data analysis tool is the interpretation itself. In other words, what do the x and y axis mean? Juan said that if I were to collect more data, I would need to do so as soon as possible because the interpretation and write-up are time-consuming. So, it seems likely that I will have to work with the data I have to wrap up this project and write my final report.

Unfortunately, as I approach the end of my DREU summer research experience, Luc and Juan will not be as available as they have been. I will still be able to contact them via Slack, but Juan and Luc leave for a conference together at some point toward the end of my 9th week, and as soon as the conference ends, Luc is off to Korea with his wife to visit her family.