---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---
## June 3 - June 7

My fourth week has been a little disappointing because I wasn't able to accomplish as much as I hoped to. I was able to make some improvements to my existing scripts after I met with Luc on Monday, and he introduced me to pivot tables in Excel because I was curious about this method for data analysis. I also shared my scripts to calculate edit distance for users using loops with Juan, and he walked me through how to replace my loops with the apply method and lambda functions to make my script more efficient.

After learning more about the apply, concat, and merge methods in Pandas earlier in the week, I had some ideas about how to move forward, but I struggled with the application of these methods on the data as it exists in the database because the plans I had were based on the data we collected on May 9th, and there have been several changes made to the database since then.

Despite this setback, I attempted to merge tables in a variety of ways to see if looking at the existing data in a new way might give me some new incites, but most of the new tables I created were full of duplicates and null values. The only useful tables I produced were the ones I created by adapting some code that Juan sent to me to concatenate tables, instead of joining them. Regardless, I was hopeful that once I had some new data, the path forward would be less murky, and all I needed to get that new data was the go-ahead from Sam.

Once Sam pushed all the latest updates, I logged into the server and worked through the first three puzzles Jeff had set up for me, toggling back and forth between the database and the learning environment, but something was wrong. Data was not logging in the tables I expected it to see it, but I wasn't certain this was an error. So, I went through every table in the database to find out what was being logged, and I exported that data to attempt to extract what I could from it. Just as I thought I had found something new and relevant, Jeff messaged me on Slack to tell me that there had been a system failure earlier in the week so they had to roll back all the updates they made on Monday, so any new data collected this week should be thrown out.

At this point, I reached out to Luc and Juan to update them on the situation and ask for guidance on how to move forward. Luc had a couple of ideas for what I could do with the data in its current state, and he also suggested that I start working on the DREU Progress Report (3rd milestone) which is due at the end of the 5th week.