---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---
## June 17 - June 21

After meeting with Luc on Monday, I began to investigate process mining because he thought this would be a productive way to spend my time when I needed a break from coding. He said I should begin by crafting potential narratives about how students may approach problem-solving based on what I've learned from the mock data we have available. So, I took some time to gain some foundational knowledge on the process of process mining, and I created a table of events that occur in the learning environment that are representative of the data being collected. Then I wrote a short narrative of a user solving a puzzle, and I created another table to show how these events might show up in this scenario in the event log data. I shared this with Luc and he made some suggestions about using the data we have currently to find a starting point to define things like: how long will the user need to be engaged in an activity before it can be described as a long time or a short time. 

Later in the week, I met with Juan. He agreed with Luc's approach to exploring the data graphically to find natural breaking points in time, but he also suggested that I simplify these events to start, by removing things like 'long', 'short', 'many', and 'few', and create operational definitions for these simplified events. For instance, 'press-button' occurs when 'table' is 'action_physical and 'type' is 'STONE_BUTTON.'

Luckily, Jeff was able to reset enough of the learning environment for me and Juan to create some new data on Tuesday afternoon. There are still some bugs to work out in the environment and the database, but the data we generated was very informative once I ran it through the scripts I combined this week, and I gained a lot of insight on how to adjust my code to move forward and learn even more! 

While I was analyzing the new tables my scripts generated, I took notes to pass on to Luc and the WHIMC development team on which data was missing and how they might improve formatting on some of the new data from the learning environment. I was even more delighted to find that the notes I was taking for them, would be beneficial for my new side project as well because they inform me on how I might create the operational definitions Juan suggested for process mining.

Apart from all that, I attended the CS research and reading group meetings, a seminar on biohybrid robotics, and the weekly UIUC Lunch and Learn on advisors, mentors, and sponsors where I was informed that UIUC would be hosting a student social this Saturday. I want to meet other students while I'm here, so I plan to attend the Lunch and Lawn Games Social this weekend.