---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---
## June 10 - June 14

I began my week drafting the progress report for the third DREU milestone and meeting with Luc to discuss my progress and findings from last week. I spent a good portion of the remainder of my week writing and debugging a script that merges tables to calculate the distance and time between interactions with the BarrelBot, and on Friday I used Matplotlib to create my first visualizations of this mock data. 

I also dropped in on a strand1 meeting, which went in a direction I wasn't anticipating but found very interesting. They were discussing how to approach the design of pedagogical agent interventions for students whose first language is not American English. More specifically, they discussed Spanish and African American Vernacular English (AAVE). I do not think that everyone was on the same page concerning these considerations.

During my weekly meeting with Juan, we examined my most recent Python script to determine why it worked as intended for some sets of data, but not others. Ultimately, this led to the discovery of an edge case, where the user interacts with the BarrelBot more than once without movement between their interactions. Once I realized what was happening in the data, fixing the code was fairly simple.

I also met with the WHIMC BarrelBot development team with Luc, and I attended the Lunch and Learn and CS research and reading groups, as usual, this week, where I met Colleen in person for the very first time. Colleen is the UIUC contact Luc introduced me to who coordinated my stay at Presby Hall and invited me to join these groups so I could meet other CS students. Accordingly, she was one of the presenters at this week's Lunch and Learn on networking. 

During a breakout session, I met Tomas, a computer science student from Brazil who recently arrived at UIUC, and Evan, a machine learning major. By the end of Colleen's lecture, attendees were primed to meet and mingle, and I met several other students in quick succession, which was really nice and really overwhelming for me. Fortunately, I used what I had learned over lunch to introduce myself and express the genuine interest and curiosity I had for these other students before excusing myself so I could get back to work. 

In reality, I don't think Luc would have minded if I had spent more time talking with other students. I just didn't want to come off as rude or disinterested when the truth is, I'm an autistic adult learning to honor where I'm at in my body when I don't have the energy and mental resources to socialize or when I'm experiencing sensory overwhelm because I'm in a large, loud, crowded room where I did not anticipate having to introduce to so many people at once. That said, I think I handled things to the best of my ability at that moment, and I'm hopeful that I'll be able to spend more time with some of the people who took the time to approach me at next week's lecture.