---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---
## May 27 - May 31

Luc was out of town for most of the week, so we didn't have our normal check-in meeting until Friday. By Friday, I had a lot to share with Luc about the meetings I attended and the Python scripts I was writing.

I'm still learning how to utilize the Pandas library in Python to do data analysis, but I was able to write a script that connects to the WHIMC database remotely to import tables as data frame objects and export them to Excel files in a local directory on my computer. I also wrote a script that calculates the Levenshtein distance (edit distance) between changes made to the directions stored in the Barrel Bot by the user every time they interact with it in the environment. It doesn't work perfectly yet, because it is still unclear which puzzle they are working on and when they complete that puzzle, but I'm still proud of myself for getting as far as I have.

On Tuesday, I attended my second CS Research Group meeting where we discussed how to improve an existing grant proposal, and then I went to my first Lunch and Learn session where I was introduced to the staff hosting these sessions and other CS students who are here for the summer doing research in the CS department.

On Wednesday, attended the WHIMC Barrel Bot check-in meeting, my first strand3 meeting, and I had my weekly check-in meeting with Juan. I shared what I learned about the state of the database from the WHIMC team as well as the code I had written with Juan. We discussed exploratory data analysis (EDA), how to make improvements to my code, and where to store calculated results. 

I spent the remainder of my week working on my script and learning more about how I can use Pandas data structures to merge tables for EDA. Next week, I hope to use what I've learned to implement the apply method Juan mentioned during our meeting. 