---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---
## July 8 - July 12

It's my second to last week here in Illinois. I'm excited to be going home, but there's still a lot I want to accomplish before my time here ends. I've been steadily fleshing out the outline that Luc helped me with for my final technical paper. I found a few academic papers I would like to cite, including two by a PhD student in Israel who has published several papers about persistence in learning using virtual educational environments for children. One striking point in their research is that certain computational concepts, like understanding data, may be more appropriate for younger age groups and harder to grasp for slightly older students.

I've noticed across pre/post testing, block-based coding programs, and other virtual educational tools for children that the structure of computational concepts is often the same because these concepts are meant to build on each other. However, I'm beginning to wonder if this might not be the best approach. It's possible this structure may be more suitable for high school students and adults, but less effective for younger learners.

Regardless, I spent most of my week reading academic papers, tweaking my Python script for ONA (Operational Network Analysis), and trying to gain a stronger understanding of the webENA tool that I will be using to make generalizations about user behavior in the learning environment. I thought I was making progress, but after my meeting with Juan on Wednesday, I realized that I needed to add one more category to my event log for my ONA results to be more meaningful. Now, I can separate a user's behavior while they are attempting to solve a puzzle and after they have solved it.

On Thursday, Luc took Juan and me to lunch, and it was really nice to hang out with them socially. On Friday, UIUC booked a charter bus to take the Lunch and Learn students to Chicago for an architecture tour with lunch and dinner provided. This was my first time in Chicago, and the architecture tour was amazing. Normally, I'm not a fan of boats, but getting to see all the buildings and learn about the city's history was worth leaving land for. After we got off the boat, they took us out for deep dish pizza, another first for me. Then I wandered around the city by myself until dinner. I went to Millennium Park to see the giant bean before heading across the street to the modern art portion of The Art Institute of Chicago.
