---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---
## July 15 - July 19

I am excited to report that I finally got to work with some real data generated by children in the learning environment this week. On Monday, groups of roughly 20 children worked through the first three Barrelbot puzzles! Then, on Tuesday and Wednesday, the same 20-ish students began at Puzzle 1 and worked through the entire learning environment at their own pace. The week leading up to this data collection was a little stressful, but definitely worth it! 

For instance, last week, Jeff and the WHIMC development team pushed some new updates and reset the learning environment to get ready for the camp. I was working on my Python script for ONA while they were doing this when suddenly my script began outputting CSV files that didn't make sense. I didn't understand what was happening, but I eventually resolved this issue over the weekend by deleting one line of code. That one line of code was a patch I had added several weeks ago to adjust the coordinates of puzzle regions from the database to correspond with the actual virtual environment. My best guess is the coordinates must have changed (ever so slightly) when they reset the environment, so I removed the patch to let the information in the database determine the z-coordinates of puzzle regions in my script, and presto chango! My script worked again! 

After I finished debugging (by unpatching) my script, I finished writing the code I was working on last week to add a status column to my ONA event log, and I received a late-night Slack message from Jeff asking if I'd be willing to test out the environment one last time for him. So, on Sunday morning, I asked my roommate Katelyn if she'd be interested and willing to test the Barrel Bot learning environment and generate some data for me. She was more than happy to help, so I set everything up and handed her my laptop. I hung out nearby while she played and took a few notes, but mostly I wanted to see what the data would look like if I interfered as little as possible. She solved the first two puzzles but got stuck on puzzle 3 because of a bug in the learning environment, which I let Jeff know about immediately. After this, Katelyn moved on to the creative section for a bit, but after placing a program in Barrel Bot that made him leave her puzzle area and enter the hallway that connects to the next user's lane, which it should not be able to do, she wanted to stop playing.

So, I switched gears and ran the data she had generated through my Python script for ONA, and I was disappointed to find that the output it generated was a mess. At this point, my script was working exactly as intended, but the data in the database logging button presses and successful outcomes did not reflect reality. I let Luc know about the situation and began patching my script to work around these issues so I'd be ready for the data collection starting the next day. 

And, of course, while I was doing all of the above, I also used the Zoom link Luc had shared with me to attend the workshop he and Juan were hosting at the conference they were attending. I popped in throughout the day, but I lost track of time and missed the panel I was hoping to attend in the afternoon. Fortunately, despite juggling these activities, I was able to patch the latest version of the code before calling it an early night because I knew my last week in Illinois was going to be incredibly eventful!

On Monday, data collection began. On the first day, roughly 100 campers of junior high age were divided into 5 groups. These groups spent the day trying out the different camp experiences being offered, one of which was WHIMC's BarrelBot learning environment. Then, each student signed up for the activity they wanted to spend the rest of the week doing. Unsurprisingly, BarrelBot was the most popular choice! The students chosen to be in the BarrelBot camp returned on Tuesday. The learning environment was reset, they each were assigned an account for the rest of the week, and they played through the first 3 puzzles a second time. Later in the week, students were given the option to play through the first 3 puzzles a third time, but I ran out of time before I could explore that data.

I spent the majority of my final week working on my technical report and exploring Monday and Tuesday's data, but I didn't get as far as I would have liked because I was struggling to identify the 5 separate groups who all used the same user accounts on Monday. I reached out to Jeff a couple of times about this issue, and I eventually discovered that there had been issues with the data collected in groups 1 and 4. After identifying the remaining reliable data from groups 2, 3, and 5, there appeared to be 45 students' worth of data to explore and analyze, but I found out late Friday afternoon that there were not enough computers for all the students in each of the 5 groups throughout the day. So, some of the behavior I was seeing in the data was generated by individuals, and other behaviors I thought I was seeing were the result of two users, working cooperatively, and sitting next to one another on the same computer. I do not know what kind of records they kept on-site, but I suspect that separating the data of single users from paired users may be impossible at this point. Moreover, even if I ignore this, it's difficult to tell if students who were struggling on Puzzle 2 and Puzzle 3 were destined to give up, or if they simply ran out of time during this short demonstration.

On Wednesday, I decided to focus on Tuesday's data collection. This group of 17 students began with the first 3 puzzles again before moving on to Puzzle 4 that afternoon. Puzzle 4 does not have a static solution because it is an area of the virtual learning environment where pairs of students build puzzles for one another to solve, and I have not been able to work on my Python script beyond this area due to bugs in the virtual environment before this camp. So, data created beyond Puzzle 3 will not be included in my final technical report for DREU due to time constraints. That said, I was seeing some interesting (but concerning) things in the data from Tuesday, and my suspicions were confirmed on Friday afternoon. One group of students who may have persisted (or not persisted) were interrupted during the third puzzle to move on to Puzzle 4, the cooperative-creative area, and another group of students who were unable to complete Puzzle 2, were assisted in solving Puzzle 3 to move on to this area. Unfortunately, this greatly affects my ability to make generalizations about student behavior and identify markers of struggle and persistence.

I was not able to complete my analysis or final technical report before I left Illinois, but I intend to wrap things up by Friday of next week from home.