---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---
## June 24 - June 28

During my check-in meeting with Luc, we discussed an alternative to process mining for visualization using a free online research tool called Epistemic Network Analysis (ENA). ENA creates visualizations that show relationships between co-occurrences, and a variation of this tool called ONA can be toggled on to pay respect to the order of events. The input for this tool is similar to the example input I found for process mining, and the application is user-friendly, so it's a more feasible option for analysis with the time I have remaining here.

That said, I successfully combined all my working scripts into one script and devised some new features to clean and process the data in a way that allows user events to be seen more clearly alongside calculations, which may help to identify markers of struggle or persistence. For instance, the edit distance calculations indicate whether the user's choices are building toward or away from the solution for specific puzzles. 

I used this processed data to create operational definitions, which I can use to reformat and output event data on users for ENA, and I have begun a new script to do so. I also took some time to create visualizations using Python and the Matplotlib library. Using this tool, I generated histograms to visualize the distribution of changes made during each interaction with the Barrel Bot across all users. The information this provides can be used in the future to set thresholds after data collection to define whether users are making big or small changes as they build toward a solution that allows Barrel Bot to navigate various obstacle courses in the learning environment.

Luc and I met again this week to update Jeff Ginger on my latest findings after the WHIMC update last week, and we met again on Thursday to begin discussing the final report I need to write for my last DREU milestone. We crafted a basic outline and discussed where I should start looking for related work to include in my report.

Beyond this, I read some research papers that Luc provided for me at our Monday meeting, and I learned more about what graduate school might be like during my weekly meeting with Juan, who will be graduating with his PhD in education next year.